+++
title = "Week 16, 2021"
date = "2021-04-19T00:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
tags = ["weekly-update"]
+++

# Week 16, 2021

April 26, 2021
Categories: Weekly Notes
## Work
## Work was decent this week. Nothing creative. I provided some data analysis to
make/change certain decisions for our software. One good thing was that I am
getting involved in software project management. It is new to me and I’m
excited to learn all about it. Looking forward to a productive and creative
next week.
## Books
Practical Programming for Strength Training | Mark Rippertoe and Andy Baker
Making super slow progress with this book. On Page 220 out of 400. This week
the book talked about the Texas Method where you start the week with high
intensity weight lifting, the next session is high volume with slightly lower
intensity, and the last workout session of the week is low intensity and low
volume. Good technique to know. I have also heard Joe Rogan talk about the
Texas method on his podcast. Would love to try it out. I just wish I would
have read a lot more of this book.
Deep Learning with PyTorch | Eli Stevens, Luca Antiga, and Thomas Viehman
I read only a few pages of this book this week. This week was busy with ## work
and side ## projects that were mentally taxing and this book just would have
been too much mental ## work.
## Fitness
3 sessions in the gym this week. Nothing interesting to share. Muscle and
body building is a mind-numbingly slow process. Strength training is going to
be a long game. Biking performance was poor. Barely touched 8 miles. I’ll
start biking to ## work next week. That will improve my biking game. I didn’t go
swimming this week.
Miscellaneous
The reason for my poor ## fitness performance this week was that I got the COVID
vaccine shot. The arm was sore and heavy for over 36 hours and hence couldn’t
go swimming or biking on my scheduled days.
Also, I had a technical assessment from Council on Energy, Environment, and
Water. I applied for an intern position in their Sustainable Mobility team.
They gave me a huge dataset of buses running in and around Delhi and a few
questions to answer. It was challenging but I really enjoyed the assessment.
Here’s a screenshot of one of the graphs that they asked me to plot. It shows
the distance travelled each day by 3 randomly selected buses. The Orange bus
is traveling a lot more distance than the Blue or Green one. Hence Orange
would probably be the last bus to go electric.
