+++
title = "Week 24, 2021"
date = "2021-06-14T00:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
tags = ["weekly-update"]
+++

# Week 24, 2021

June 21, 2021
Categories: Weekly Notes
The punches you miss are the ones that
wear you out.
Boxing trainer Angelo Dundee
I quit the Fire Progression Prediction project this week ! I wasn’t making
any progress on that project. The last update I have on the project is from
Week 16. I was carrying that burden in my head without any action on it. It
became an energy sink. Quitting that project meant letting go of a lot of
future possibilities, burning bridges with professors, etc. It was a hard
decision to make. But now that I have done it, it is time to focus my energy
on the task at hand. Enough time to cry at night eh?
## Work
## Work has been slow. Given that we are a small startup with a skeleton crew,
any and every problem that arises affects the development of more advanced
features in the product. This week and the last, I spent majority of my time
understanding the different problems we are facing in our product and then
communicating those problems with other teams in the company. My boss is
really good at troubleshooting. The other day we spent 4 hours on a google
meets call to discuss a problem that one of our clients had raised. What
makes him good at troubleshooting is his stubbornness with the problem. He
falls in love with the problem and is not satisfied until he has exhausted
all his options of understanding the problem. And even after that, he’ll
discuss it with me or someone else for perspectives to address the gaps in
his understanding of the problem. It is a pleasure watching him troubleshoot.
Machine Learning Bootcamp
This bootcamp is packed with information. I missed blogging last week. 2
weeks of content in this bootcamp was more machine learning than I have
learned till now. Having said that, I am really enjoying studying machine
learning. We finished 4 assignments in the last 2 weeks. I won’t list and
describe them here. I’ll just leave my GitHub link here :
https://github.com/unmeshmali25?tab=overview&from=2021-06-01&to=2021-06-21
I am also enjoying the community that we have built at the Bootcamp. People
from all over the world speaking to and working with each other.
One thing I want to take time to learn is eloquence. Communicating technical
or non-technical concepts or ideas to others is an art that is essential in
life. I will try to search for tools and opportunities including my full-time
job to improve my communication skills.
CEEW – Sustainable Mobility Research Assistant
There was a certain amount of goal shifting that happened at the internship
in the last 2 weeks. At this point, we have a pre-trained model, which we use
to apply certain rules and generate a set of labels for every image. The
tricky part now is the dashboard. I have used Dash in the past to host web
apps. The visualization was using plotly. But now that I have spent some time
on it again, I have realized that very small amount of knowledge and
experience is transferred to solve this new problem. The deadline is end of
next week. I just hope I get to spend more time to figure out this problem.
## Books
Genentech: The Beginnings of Biotech | Sally Smith Hughes
One advantage of quitting the Fire Progression project was that I picked up
this book. Very soon I will be completing 4 years in San Francisco. Apart
from being a fantastic tourist destination, boasting a staggering amount of
wealth, and enjoying one of the most pleasant climates around the world, San
Francisco is also the hub of biotechnology in the world. The main reason for
that is a company called Genentech. This was the first company that developed
Insulin and commercialized it. Saving numerous lives.
I am on page 30 of this book and I have learned that the 2 co-founders were
from Standford University and University of California in San Francisco. I
have been to UCSF more than once but never knew why it was so rich. Now I
know. More interesting reading to follow.
## Fitness
Gym: Gym was decent in the last 2 weeks. I was going in regularly. When I say
regularly, I mean 2-3 times a week. Ideally, I want to hit the gym at least 4
times, with at least one Yoga session for flexibility.
Biking: Closing in on 30 miles per week average. I am commuting to ## work twice
a week. Planning to step it up to 3 times now. If that happens, I will
average 40-50 miles every week. That would be ideal.
