+++
title = "Week 33, 2021 : I borrowed Sarvesh's bike to commute"
date = "2021-08-16T00:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
tags = ["weekly-update"]
+++

# Week 33, 2021
Thanks to SF's homelessness problems (shattered glass everywhere), I am needing to fix flat tires on my bike almost every week. I didn't have time to fix my bike's flat tire so I borrowed Sarvesh's bike to commute this week. 
<hr>

### Work <span style="float: right;">{{< rating 2 >}}</span>
This was a slow week at Sunverge Energy. I was working from home on Wednesday
and Friday. Well, not exactly home. I was in San Rafael supporting a medical
treatment of my roommate. Working from San Rafael was a pleasant experience.
I got to take calls and do work from the clinic’s waiting room half the time
and from a Starbucks for the other half. Latte, Almond croissant, and data
analysis.
For the next week, I need to complete a task related to openADR. And I am
also going to make a case to my boss to allow me to contribute to software
development. The probability of me getting to work with software development
is low but it is worth a try.

### Projects <span style="float: right;">{{< rating 4 >}}</span>
####  <span style="color: teal">Machine Learning Bootcamp</span>
The week was all about deploying ML models. We deployed ML models on AWS
Elastic Beanstalk using the CLI. There were multiple assignments on PySpark,
Dash which I thought were pretty cool. All about parallel computation. We
signed up for the community edition of Databricks which allowed the use of 1
cluster. Databricks is a one-stop shop for all data needs. We used it
individually which defeats the purpose since it allows for collaboration.
About the capstone project: Me and Tiziano have completed the model testing
and tuning phase. If you don’t know, we are trying to identify fraudulent
activity from a bank’s transaction database. We researched our way into using
Unsupervised Anomaly Detection . The challenge with anomaly detection is that
you cannot measure the performance of the model. There are no metrics. I see
it more of a helper function. It can give you a lot interesting pattern in
your data but then you have to meet the model in the middle and take the
investigation further. That’s exactly what we are thinking of doing now –
just identify interesting patterns in the data and investigate further with a
different model. My task for the next week is to complete the flask app and
deploy it on AWS EB. Looking forward.

####  <span style="color: teal">CEEW – Sustainable Mobility Research Assistant</span>
Great news to share – I got a 3-months extension on my internship. I did a
decent job with the last assignment that I got. I don’t have the next project
yet. Abhinav (my manager at CEEW) gave me a list of project to do which I
listed in the last blog (Week 31) but I found out later that they are all
policy projects. I am thinking a lot of internet research and document
writing with these projects which I am not looking forward to. I think I am
going to skip on all of those and find a project with data analysis or
machine learning. Fingers crossed. Let’s see how this internship shapes my
career going forward.

### Books <span style="float: right;">{{< rating 3 >}}</span>
####  <span style="color: teal">Ghost in the Wires: My Adventures as the World’s Most Wanted Hacker | Kevin Mitnick</span>

I started this book last week. I took a sudden interest in cybersecurity
after I deployed the CEEW app on my local machine and exposed it over the
internet. My friend – Aditya who is completing his PhD in AI and
cybersecurity advised me against exposing my local machine. But I did it
anyway. After that, I thought it’ll be cool to find out what could have gone
wrong with my little experiment. Hence my sudden interest in cybersecurity.
This book is the autobiography of Kevin Mitnick who is a renowned hacker
turned cybersecurity consultant. So far it is full of cunning tactics to hack
telephone lines (1970s :P). It is clear that he is addicted to hacking and
finds very difficult to stay away from the adventure. Harder the hacking the
more he gets kick out of it once he solves it. What I am learning from the
book is Kevin’s social engineering skills and his tenacity with a problem. I
hope these skills rub off on me minus the hacking addiction.

### Fitness <span style="float: right;">{{< rating 3 >}}</span>
- Bike: I got decent miles on my bike this week. Well, not my bike but
Sarvesh’s. My bike had a flat tire which I didn’t have time to fix during the
work week. I got the bike fixed on Friday evening (yeah this is what on do on
Friday nights lol) and I also got a spare tube so I can fix the next flat at
home. San Francisco is getting worse in terms of shattered glass pieces on
bike tracks and even footpaths.
- Gym: I didn’t lift a lot of weights last week. Perhaps 2 times in the gym
with very light workouts. That is disappointing. I need to put in more hours
and more pounds if I need my knee to heal early.
Sports: The reason for lack of weight lifting is sports. I played Gully-
cricket on Saturday for over 2 hours and I played Volleyball for over 2 hours
on Sunday. Group sports is a lot of fun. But it would be wise for me to lift
weights first and play in the remaining time and with leftover energy.
