+++
title = "Week 14, 2021"
date = "2021-04-05T00:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
tags = ["weekly-update"]
+++

# Week 14, 2021

April 12, 2021
Categories: Weekly Notes
## Work
Sunverge is slowly and safely opening its SF office to employees. This week I
went into the office first 3 days of the week. I ended up getting more ## work
done but also more tired at the end of the day than when I am working from
home. I guess I got used to working from home. I hope I adapt fast to working
from office everyday. Spent some time of the week helping the customer
support team with troubleshooting. Other time I was either working with the
sales staff with proposals or revisiting already signed customer
deliverables.
## Books
Practical Programming for Strength Training | Mark Rippertoe and Andy Baker
At page 154 out of 400 pages. Didn’t get to read as much this week. Just over
an hour of reading split between 2 weekdays. The book is now going deeper
into each of the training phases. I am reading about novice trainees. I
belong to this category. It feels wonderful to read about stuff and go to the
gym and execute on it.
Deep Learning with PyTorch | Eli Stevens, Luca Antiga, and Thomas Viehman
At page 162 out of 500 pages. Read only about 30 pages of this book. Based on
my 50 pages/week target, I should have been at page 250. 90 pages short of
target meaning 2 weeks behind schedule. Anyway, the book is getting
interesting and intense at the same time. The last 30 pages I read talked
about splitting the data into training and validation sets. It also
introduced deep learning related jargons like Epochs, Hyper-parameters,
Parameters, Optimizers, Learning rate etc. The book is structured such that
it starts with assuming that the reader has only the basic understanding of
algebra and then builds everything on top of it. I absolutely love that
structure. I am sure I’ll have to revisit these chapters to practice so that
I can actually use it to solve problems but for now it is beautifully
building my knowledge of deep learning and PyTorch’s place in it.
## Fitness
The week was not ideal ## fitness-wise. If only I had more than 24 hours in a
day to hit all my targets.
Gym: This week I got a chance to only spend one session each for lower and
upper body. Thanks to the exercises, routines, and techniques taught in the
book that I am reading that my body was able to maximize the effects from
each workout session.
Swimming: I went for a swim just once this week. However, I spent a lot more
time in the pool as compared to last week. And when I say more time, I don’t
mean waiting at the end of the pool length for rest. I swam a total distance
of 350 yards which is 0.3km or 0.2 miles. It is shamefully low. But given
that I am a beginner in the pool area, I’ll let it slide.
Bike: I am definitely not a beginner on the bike track but I only rode 8
miles on my beautiful road bike. That’s just hurtful performance. Hope the
next week is much better than the last 2 weeks.
