+++
title = "Week 31, 2025"
date = 2025-07-28T23:16:49-04:00
draft = false
tags = ["weekly-update"]
+++


# Week 31, 2025

## Work
This was an interesting week at CVS Health. We had a team offsite on Monday and Tuesday. I was part of the planning committee. Since most of my team is spread-out all over the USA and remote, it was nice to meet everyone in person for a change. 
We also retrained a few XGBoost Models which will run in production on a test cell next week. Unfortunately, I cannot talk a lot about the specifics of the work I do in interest of confidentiality. Having said that, I plan on writing essays on the work I have done with ML and MLOps in the retail space. I have learned a lot and it would be nice to write it down and share with others. 

## Projects
####  <span style="color: maroon">Reinforcement Learning</span>
I started learning RL. My initial plan was to sign up for an online certification but later decided against it. I had disappointing experience with SimpliLearn's Cloud Computing bootcamp and now I am not ready to jump into another (expensive) paid bootcamp.
This time I am going to take a different approach. I am going to follow Andrej Karpathy's advice - find a problem statement/project to work on and learn the skills "on-demand" as you solve the problem statement. 

Thanks to all the LLMs, I got my first problem statement - 
The question: *“For each customer, this week, should I send nothing or one of the 5 offers, and via which channel, so that long-run profit is maximised without breaching the weekly budget?”* This is in alignment with my day-to-day work at CVS. 


I asked AI to get me a simple working prototype model and I was able to train an agent on a custom environment. That was pretty cool. However, I did not understand half of what I did and hence I switched over to watching hands-on videos of people coding RL agents to play games. That helped strenghten my intuition further. I tried to watch David Silver's RL lectures on YouTube but those were too technical for this week. Reading, watching, and understanding the math takes a lot of mental bandwidth. As I gather momentum with this project, my mind will be better prepared to dive in the theory of it all.  




## Books
####  <span style="color: maroon">The Forever War - Joe Haldeman</span>
I started reading this Sci-fi book a couple weeks ago. I haven't made much progress with this book. It would be nice to read one book a week but that's a tall challenge given my commitments. The book however has been interesting so far. The protagonist has been sent to a far off planet to train for battle with the alien species there. They just engaged in their first battle. I love the idea of a suit that monitors and records all your vitals in real-time (just like the ironman suit) and it also helps to adapt to any environment. I think the suits in the book are powered by fuel cells - I am not sure what type of fuel it runs on yet.


### Fitness

I only logged in 2 workouts this week - one a bike ride to a park nearby and then 25 minutes in the gym this morning. I need to do better. 
I faster 24 hours once this week. I need to double this as well. 
 