+++
title = "Week 15, 2022 : First blog after I started working at Rivian"
date = "2022-04-11T00:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
tags = ["weekly-update"]
+++

## Week 15, 2022

I came across an article written by the author of “Four Thousand Weeks : Time Management for Mortals” and the author talks about looking at your life as a series of 4000 weeks. This perspective makes me realize that life has an expiry date and all life decisions must be viewed through this lens. I thought it was a powerful thought experiment and I’ll try to inculcate this thinking.

### Work <span style="float: right;">{{< rating 3 >}}</span>
<!-- {{< collapse maxHeight="100" >}}
{{< /collapse >}} -->
I started working at Rivian as an Algorithms Engineer in their energy and
charging team. Now, I have moved from creating algorithms for stationary
battery storage solutions to stationary + mobile battery storage solutions.
If you think about it, at Sunverge I was writing code to optimize a battery
with 13-15 kWh of energy capacity. At Rivian, along with a similar stationary
battery size, I get to optimize a 135 kWh of battery capacity through the
electric vehicle.
Another way to look at this is – an average American household energy
consumption is anywhere between 20 – 70 kWh per day. Now imagine a future
where everyone is driving an electric car, the household consumption
increases to 150 – 200 kWh. Optimizing the consumption of such large amounts
of energy would have a lot more impact than just stationary storage. I am
very excited to contribute to this wonderful future.
It has been 6 weeks since my first day at Rivian and I have already started
working on core algorithms. The team is great. I am working remotely full-
time now.
I do miss biking to ## work everyday at Sunverge. In absence of that and
increased workload, my physical exercises have sharply declined.

### Projects <span style="float: right;">{{< rating 3 >}}</span>
I have started learning cloud technologies specifically AWS. I began with a
course on AWS IoT. At Rivian, we have some interesting AWS IoT projects going
on. It would be great if I can get some hands-on experience with those projects. Also, there are amazing folks with extensive cloud technologies
knowledge and experience. It would be cool to learn from them.

### Books <span style="float: right;">{{< rating 2 >}}</span>
####  <span style="color: teal">Life after Google | George Gilder</span>
This book has been a drag. It’s been over 6 weeks that I am reading this book
and I am only half way through. It isn’t very interesting and I have to work
extra hard to get myself to sit with it. And I feel bad when I leave book
unfinished. I hope I can take some time out next week to finish this book off
and start a new one that’s more rewarding.

### Fitness <span style="float: right;">{{< rating 1 >}}</span>
Fitness has been dwindling. Let’s look at some data here. The last weekly blog I wrote was in December 2021.
- December 2021 - 13 hours ; 4847 calories 
- January 2022 - 24 hours 22 minutes ; 13015 calories
- February 2022 - 14 hours 7 minutes ; 7388 calories
- March 2022 - 17 hours 44 minutes ; 11471 calories
- April 2022 (so far) - 3 hours 52 minutes ; 2257 calories

My performance hasn’t been too bad thanks to the game of volleyball. However,
in terms of strength training it hasn’t been fruitful. I need to pick up some
pace for this month of April. Ideally, I would like to set a new record for
2022 in this month. That would mean beating the January’s best of 24 hours
and 22 minutes. To be able to get there, I’ll need to average at least 1 hour
of exercise every single day for the rest of the month. This is going to be
interesting.