+++
title = "Week 47, 2021"
date = "2021-11-22T00:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
tags = ["weekly-update"]
+++

## Week 47, 2021

> <span style="color: #d73a49">I hate writing, I love having written – Dorothy Parker</span>


I am writing a weekly blog after a very long break. 14 weeks long. Many
things happened and this blog would be paraphrasing the last 14 weeks. 

### Work 
Work has been moving slow. Since September, we have had 2 software releases
of our product. I have been involved in developing algorithms for some of the
features. One example is an algorithm for operating a group of battery
systems (with or without solar) as a virtual power plant through openADR. I
can’t be transparent about the rest of the ## work on this blog. My ## work mostly
involves identifying and fixing bugs using data, communicating results with
clients or answering their questions and concerns with eloquent
visualizations. 

### Side Hustles 
I graduated from the Machine Learning Bootcamp at FourthBrain. Me and Tiziano
got awarded the best capstone project award (we developed and deployed a web
app for the use of the fraud investigations team at Ibotta to identify and
bar fraudulent accounts from their app). The bootcamp covered everything
under the umbrella of Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence. Thanks to
it, I now have a clear insight on the technical feasibility of machine
learning models and where we cannot stretch ML models too far. From my
experience so far in the energy industry, the only area I believe
sophisticated ML can provide a good value proposition is in energy trading.
For the majority of the applications that drive value, a simple arithmetic
formula can do the job and any subsequently complicated ML models are past
the point of diminishing returns. Even outside the energy industry, it’s not
as good as it seems. Most of the financial industry uses very basic ML like
linear regression which is nothing but y = mx + c. 
The places where ML and AI really practically shine today have no positive
impact on humankind according to me. To give you an example, Facebook (now
Meta) uses ML for attention harvesting to sell more ads. Google does the
same. These companies have taken this technology too far. Fire was a great
technology when invented. You can use fire either to cook your food or burn
down your house. ML and AI applications are approaching the burning down
phase. 
My other side hustle with CEEW didn’t progress fast in the past 3 months. We
completed the Bus Shelter Assessment web app and presented it in the
competition. The organization was placed 5th nationally. The person who I was
reporting to is leaving CEEW soon and hence we haven’t been able to start a
new project. I am staying put for now. If any interesting project comes up,
I’ll resume working there. If not, I’ll look to volunteer or intern with
another Indian company. My goal is to spend 2-6 hours a week growing my
professional network in India and hopefully make a good name for myself while
helping companies achieve what they want. “Doing well by doing good” 
### Books 
These past 14 weeks were great for reading. I finished the following ## books
Ghost in the Wires: My Adventures as the World’s Most Wanted Hacker | Kevin
Mitnick
Internet of Money | Andreas Antolopous
The psychology of Money | Morgan Housel
The Innovator’s Hypothesis- How cheap experiments are worth more than good
ideas | Michael Shrage
I am currently reading the biography of Benjamin Franklin written by Walter
Isaacson. I am 10% in and thoroughly enjoying the book. I hope some of his
characteristics rub off on me and help me rise above myself. 
### Fitness
My focus on exercising was dwindling until this month. Thanks to my apple
watch, I have been recording each of my workouts. I looked at the data and
realized I am falling behind in all aspects – Cycling, Strength training,
Yoga. That accountability gave me some motivation and I have been able to
pick up exercising – mostly cycling. This week was Thanksgiving break. Me and
2 other friends took advantage of the holidays and biked over 50 miles on the
mountains in the North bay. We started from my place and came back from the
Pantol car park which is just 2 miles short of the peak of Mt. Tamalpais. I
was supremely exhausted but I had 2 days to recover from it. That bike ride
gave a boost of self confidence to get over the laziness mentality. I hope
only sky’s the limit for ## fitness for the months to follow. 
Week 1437/4000
April 11, 2022
Categories: Weekly Notes
Changing the format of the title for these weekly blogs. I came across an
article written by the author of “Four Thousand Weeks : Time Management for
Mortals” and the author talks about looking at your life as a series of 4000
weeks. This perspective makes me realize that life has an expiry date and all
life decisions must be viewed through this lens. I thought it was a powerful
thought experiment and I’ll try to inculcate this thinking.
## Work
I started working at Rivian as an Algorithms Engineer in their energy and
charging team. Now, I have moved from creating algorithms for stationary
battery storage solutions to stationary + mobile battery storage solutions.
If you think about it, at Sunverge I was writing code to optimize a battery
with 13-15 kWh of energy capacity. At Rivian, along with a similar stationary
battery size, I get to optimize a 135 kWh of battery capacity through the
electric vehicle.
Another way to look at this is – an average American household energy
consumption is anywhere between 20 – 70 kWh per day. Now imagine a future
where everyone is driving an electric car, the household consumption
increases to 150 – 200 kWh. Optimizing the consumption of such large amounts
of energy would have a lot more impact than just stationary storage. I am
very excited to contribute to this wonderful future.
It has been 6 weeks since my first day at Rivian and I have already started
working on core algorithms. The team is great. I am working remotely full-
time now.
I do miss biking to ## work everyday at Sunverge. In absence of that and
increased workload, my physical exercises have sharply declined.
## Side hustles
I have started learning cloud technologies specifically AWS. I began with a
course on AWS IoT. At Rivian, we have some interesting AWS IoT ## projects going
on. It would be great if I can get some hands-on experience with those
## projects. Also, there are amazing folks with extensive cloud technologies
knowledge and experience. It would be cool to learn from them.
## Books
Life after Google | George Gilder
This book has been a drag. It’s been over 6 weeks that I am reading this book
and I am only half way through. It isn’t very interesting and I have to ## work
extra hard to get myself to sit with it. And I feel bad when I leave book
unfinished. I hope I can take some time out next week to finish this book off
and start a new one that’s more rewarding.
## Fitness
## Fitness has been dwindling. Let’s look at some data here. The last weekly
blog I wrote was in December 2021.
December 2021
13 hours ; 4847 calories
January 2022
24 hours 22 minutes ; 13015 calories
February 2022
14 hours 7 minutes ; 7388 calories
March 2022
17 hours 44 minutes ; 11471 calories
April 2022 (so far)
3 hours 52 minutes ; 2257 calories
My performance hasn’t been too bad thanks to the game of volleyball. However,
in terms of strength training it hasn’t been fruitful. I need to pick up some
pace for this month of April. Ideally, I would like to set a new record for
2022 in this month. That would mean beating the January’s best of 24 hours
and 22 minutes. To be able to get there, I’ll need to average at least 1 hour
of exercise every single day for the rest of the month. This is going to be
interesting.
