+++
title = "Week 20, 2021"
date = "2021-05-17T00:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
tags = ["weekly-update"]
+++

# Week 20, 2021

May 25, 2021
Categories: Weekly Notes
## Work
## Work was slow this week. I worked on and finished only one analytical
project. Rest of the tasks were reading, working with others with
troubleshooting, and brainstorming a control logic to minimize green house
gas emissions for a group of houses. I wish I was doing more analytically
technical tasks but it is what it is.
Machine Learning Bootcamp
This bootcamp got very busy super fast. Currently studying linear regression
with all its nuances. Uni-variate regression, multi-variate regression, using
gradient descent to converge a model. Also completed 3 ## projects in the last
week. Covid-19 infections predictions for Chicago, Covid-19 international
cases and tests analysis and prediction, housing prices prediction using
gradient descent. Here’s the link to my Github profile where I have uploaded
the ## projects. https://github.com/unmeshmali25
CEEW – Sustainable Mobility Research Assistant
I started helping out CEEW with a hackathon type competition. The project is
to make rapid assessment of bus stops in terms of accessibility and safety.
So, looking at things like private cars parked in front of the bus stop,
benches to sit on, curbs around the bus stop, lights etc. The project is on a
very tight schedule. We have just over a month to deliver on this project. I
started working on collecting data. Chasing 2 options right now. 1) Get
locations of all the bus stops in an Indian city and programmatically
download Google Street View Images at those locations. 2) Use web scrapping
to download images that show up in google image search after typing in “bus
stops in India” keyword. I have executed on the latter option. Next week,
we’ll have to focus on using pre-trained models to run on our test images.
Given that we don’t have a lot of time, going with pre-trained neural network
models is out best bet.
## Books
Couldn’t read anything this week 🙁
## Fitness
Gym: Went to 3 weight lifting sessions in this week. Since I missed last 2
weeks of weight lifting because of the flu and the second Pfizer shot, I
realized I had regressed a lot in weight lifting. It is going to take
committed couple weeks to get that strength back.
Biking: I rode to ## work 2 times this week so I registered decent miles-just
over 30 miles. However, one day while returning from ## work, San Francisco was
experiencing unprecedented wind speeds of over 35 miles/hour. Also, on my way
back home from ## work, I have to ride through a considerable elevation gain. So
on that high wind day, I decided to put my bike on the bus and get back home.
It was a good decision.
