+++
title = "Week 31, 2021 : Deployed computer vision app for the Delhi government"
date = "2021-08-02T00:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
tags = ["weekly-update"]
+++

# Week 31, 2021

### Work <span style="float: right;">{{< rating 4 >}}</span>
The last two weeks have been productive at work. Just usual stuff. Putting
out fires, making progress with ongoing ## projects and sprints, asset
monitoring and management, and closely working with customers to answer
questions with data and solve their issues if any. I have learned to be
flexible at this company and I am not overly concerned about what I do day to
day.

### Projects <span style="float: right;">{{< rating 4 >}}</span>
####  <span style="color: teal">Machine Learning Bootcamp</span>
Decent week at the Bootcamp. In the last 2 weeks, we focussed on GAN models –
Generative Adversarial Networks and Time series and Sequence modeling. One
application of cycleGAN that we explored in our live session assignment is
Uber’s use of the model to generate nighttime and extreme weather event
images to train their autonomous driving models. In Sequence modeling, we
explored RNN modes to predict outcomes of online browsing sessions for
Cosmetics company. Pretty cool stuff –
https://github.com/unmeshmali25/Sequence-Modelling-Cosmetics-
Dataset/blob/main/Sequence_Learning_on_Cosmetics_Data_4B_v1_Unmesh.ipynb

####  <span style="color: teal">CEEW – Sustainable Mobility Research Assistantp</span>
I managed to solve the deployment problem with the web app to rank bus
shelters in India using Computer Vision. The problem of deployment failure
with PythonAnywhere, DigitalOcean, and AWS ElasticBeanstalk  was memory
limit. The virtual environment containing the web app, required dependencies
, and the trained ML model sat at 1.4GB  of space. Each of the above
mentioned FREE third party hosting services allow for not more than 512MB .
And, Heroku  no longer supports Python-3.7.6  which is required (strictly) to
run the ImageAI  python package. That sucked.
The solution I came up with is more of a hack than a scalable solution. I
deployed the model on my local machine as a WSGI server  using the gunicorn
python package and exposed my IP address over the internet using secure HTTPs
URL. I used a third party tunneling service called gw.run . The last
remaining task in this project is to transfer the app, model, and
dependencies to a windows computer of my project supervisor. He has a good
GPU on his laptop and we might be able to speed up the processing. Right now,
our model takes about 5 seconds to process 1 image. I assume the city of
Delhi has around 2000 bus shelters or more. That’s 3 hours to rank all the
bus shelters in Delhi. Now Imagine that the state or central government
install cameras on each of these bus shelters, those cameras will be feeding
video and images of bus shelters all day long. With that kind of
infrastructure, our model would be very inefficient.
After completion of the project last week, I expressed my enthusiasm to work
on other ingoing projects at CEEW and they sent me a list of projects to
choose from. Next week, I will spend some time on preliminary research to
choose a project. Enabling multi-modal freight logistics in India  sounds
like an awesome project. Another interesting project is Addressing fuel tax
revenue loss with high EV penetration . Exciting times ahead with CEEW.

### Books <span style="float: right;">{{< rating 5 >}}</span>
####  <span style="color: teal">Genentech: The Beginnings of Biotech |  Sally Smith Hughes</span>
I finished this book over the weekend. What an amazing experience it was to
live the story of Genetech and the rest of the Biotech industry. I vaguely
remembered studying biology in school but I never understood what Biotech
meant. Hell, I didn’t even know that it is a scientific field that one could
actually pursue outside academics. Thanks to the book, that perception has
changed. I still have plethora of questions about the science and its
production scaling but at least I have a rough mental model to put the right
questions in the right place.
Genentech was the first company (or a R&D facility) sponsored by large
private pharmaceutical corporations to synthesize genes (think DNA) that if
inserted into the right bacteria enables the bacteria to produce proteins
(think Hormones) that can be used by humans. Insulin and Human Growth
Hormones were the breakthrough products of Genetech that made the founders –
Ron Swanson and Herbert Boyer et.al. rich beyond their wildest expectations.
One amazing personal connection – During the research and development of
Human Growth Hormone – Genetech recruited a scientist from UCSF. That
scientist had to steal (or take what was his- long story) a DNA sample from
UCSF by walking into the UCSF lab at mid night. A decade later, lawsuits
against UCSF (along with this little maneuver) cost Genetech $150 million in
fines to UCSF and $50 million dollars towards a R&D building at UCSF’s
mission bay campus in San Francisco. This building is right across the street
from where I have been going for Physiotherapy for close to a year now !!!

### Fitness <span style="float: right;">{{< rating 2 >}}</span>
Really bad weeks for fitness 🙁 Been to the gym maybe only 3 times. I have
been biking, playing Frisbee and Volleyball though. Need to concentrate more
on fitness going forward.
