+++
title = "Week 17, 2021"
date = "2021-04-26T00:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
tags = ["weekly-update"]
+++

# Week 17, 2021

May 3, 2021
Categories: Weekly Notes
## Work
This week was off to a great start. I was given a documentation assignment.
While completing the assignment, I learned all I can about a Smart Home
management protocol called Echonet Lite. It was fun to read about it. Got
involved in a couple more interesting ## projects in the company.
## Books
Practical Programming for Strength Training | Mark Rippertoe and Andy Baker
I finished this book over this week. Read close to 200 pages. The book mostly
talks about different training methods adopted by different trainers all over
the world in the last century. These include the Texas Method, Dynamic Effort
Method, The Split Routine among others. I don’t know which one I’ll end up
adopting in my training routine. I like the Texas method the best so far.
Splitting the week between 3 training days. One day is high intensity day,
next is high volume day, and the last is light day with low volume and low
intensity. I’ll use this technique for the next few months.
Deep Learning with PyTorch | Eli Stevens, Luca Antiga, and Thomas Viehman
Read around 20 pages of this book. The book is now walking me through image
classification using deep learning. Interesting stuff.
## Fitness
Gym: Thanks to the strength training book that I am reading, I started
logging my training. Weights, sets, and repetitions etc. Now I eagerly look
forward to my training days. I missed one workout day this week.
Training Logs Week 1 (Week 17 of the year)
Biking: A splendid week for biking. I have set a personal record of over 30
miles during the week in the last 7 months. The injury was an impediment to
biking for so long. The great Roman emperor Marcus Aurelius said “What stands
in the way, becomes the way”. Biking is now an integral part of my life. When
I rode back from ## work on Thursday, the shattered window glasses on the
streets of San Francisco cause a flat tire. Without that, I could have
crosses 50 miles this week. This time I bought a tube to replace if it
happens again. Always learning something new.
Swimming: No swimming this week.
