+++
title = "Week 10, 2021"
date = "2021-03-08T00:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
tags = ["weekly-update"]
+++

# Week 10, 2021

March 11, 2021
Categories: Weekly Notes
## Work
Working on multiple things like always. I have a couple technical ## projects in
hand that involve Python and Java programming. I also learned Docker to be
able to deploy those ## projects. On the client-facing side, delivered on some
data and Tableau dashboard requests. Spent a lot of time with the QA team to
test out new deliverables. Not the best but a fun week at ## work.
## Books
GOLD IN THE WATEAR | P.H. Mullen
Spent just over 3 hours in total reading time and about 50 odd pages of the
book. The story is at the point where the swimmers have just come back after
winning a relay at the Pan Pacific championship tournament. While their
individual performances showed them that they weren’t unassailable, their
combined victory in the relay gave them a ray of hope to win the Olympics of
2000. This is all happening in the winter of 1999 and now all athletes have
come back to the Santa Clara Swim Club to train harder for the main event
next year.
Kurt Grote (one of the 3 athletes anticipated to win gold in the Olympics) is
now biking around 1000 miles a month in the mountains next to the Stanford
University campus to supplement his arduous swim training. Personally, I am
averaging 20 miles a week. I can’t imagine biking 250 miles a week. But I
digress. Looking forward to the athletes’ grueling training phase that the
author appropriately titled “Darkness”.
## Fitness
Gym : San Francisco has made good progress in keeping the number of COVID-19
infections down. And the vaccine supply is rising steadily thanks to the
Johnson and Johnson vaccine that was approved recently by the FDA. As a
result of the above, SF has opened indoor gyms and dinning at 10% capacity. I
have joined the gym near my house. They have a swimming pool – 25 yards in
length and 3 lanes. I am eagerly waiting for them to open the pool. With my
book reading this week, I am already in the grove to go swimming. Apart from
that, the equipments are not bad. They have a variety of them. As you enter
the gym they take your temperature and hand you a sanitizer spray bottle that
you carry with you to all equipments. And of course masks are mandatory. I
have been there twice this week. I usually bike to the gym which is a good
warmup routine. It takes me around 7 minutes. Yesterday it was raining in SF
and it felt amazing to ride my bike in the rain while coming home from the
gym.
Biking : This week I rode 27.98 miles (~45 km) with an elevation gain of 1066
ft. Hope to beat this record next week. Would love to explore other parts of
San Francisco on the bike.
