+++
title = "Week 21, 2021 : YOLO Model to the rescue"
date = "2021-05-24T00:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
tags = ["weekly-update"]
+++

# Week 21, 2021

The highlight this week was that CEEW and I decided to use google's YOLO model to use in the bus shelter assesment project. 
<hr>

### Work <span style="float: right;">{{< rating 3 >}}</span>
I spent around 40% of the time in troubleshooting a bug in production.
Another 30% in project management for the new contract. The remaining time
was spent in creating database metrics mapping to clients internal
measurement points. This task was challenging in that it required me to look
at tiny details and make my way through incomplete and incoherent documents.
No analytics or optimization at all this week.

### Projects <span style="float: right;">{{< rating 4 >}}</span>
####  <span style="color: teal">Machine Learning Bootcamp</span>
This week I learned and applied concepts of Suport Vector Machines for an
image recognition project. Another project was to perform Credit Assessment
for a bank to predict how likely a candidate is to receive loan from the
bank.
The image recognition problem introduced me to the concept of Principal
Component Analysis for feature selection and making pipelines to pre-process
data. We also used GridSearchCV to find the best possible combinations of
hyper-parameters like Gamma, C etc.
And the Bank Credit Assessment had over 35 features including age, education,
sex, duration, balance, etc. There were a lot of features and we used Pearson
Correlation, and P-value to get rid of highly correlated features. p-value
kept 17 features out of 37. Then we introduced Lasso Regressor which brought
down the features to 2. And then Random Forest Classifier algorithm from
sklearn package did the rest.

####  <span style="color: teal">CEEW – Sustainable Mobility Research Assistant
</span>
We decided to go with Object Detection pre-trained model to rank the bus
stops based on accessibility and security. The YOLO model (You Only Look
Once) from Tensorflow evidently works best however, recent upgrades to other
dependent packages like numpy and Keras have rendered the model unworkable. I
felt frustration after upgrading and downgrading many packages but I still
failed. I tried to find other pre-trained models but I was advised against it
by the project lead. I hope the following week brings great news.

### Books <span style="float: right;">{{< rating 0 >}}</span>
No reading at all this week 🙁

### Fitness <span style="float: right;">{{< rating 4 >}}</span>
- Biking: Decent miles covered this week. I approached close to 30 miles.
Thanks to commute once again.
- Gym: I went to the gym only once this week. I feel horrible. I lack the
discipline to make each hour count every single day. I had a lot of time to
squeeze in a workout but I didn’t go. I found excuses like I went to the gym
yesterday, or I biked 15 miles yesterday, or the left knee needs some rest. I
wish to conquer these mind games. I hope I do. At least for the next week.
