+++
title = "Week 19, 2021"
date = "2021-05-10T00:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
tags = ["weekly-update"]
+++

# Week 19, 2021

May 20, 2021
Categories: Weekly Notes
 ## Work
Worked with OpenADR implementation and the problems associated with it.
Worked with QA engineers to recreate and solve some of these problems. A lot
of collaboration this week. I enjoyed it. Also, we commissioned a new client,
so fulfilling all data requests and building dashboards on Tableau to view
day-to-day operations. These dashboards also help us troubleshoot in near
real time. Attending meetings with the client to answer their questions and
note their concerns. A fun week ## work. Now that most of our employees are
coming to office, a lot of interesting conversations keep me entertained
throughout the ## work day.
 Machine Learning Bootcamp
Began this bootcamp with a 6 hour live online session on Saturday. Many
interesting people are part of this bootcamp. Learning/coding together is a
lot more engaging and rewarding. I missed that. We have started out the
course with univariate and multivariate regressions. Mostly working on COVID-
19 data around the world. The new thing I learned this week was Variance
Inflation Factor (VIF) that is used to find co-linearity between features.
Cool stuff. Check this out: https://github.com/unmeshmali25/COVID19-
Prediction-Chicago-Hands-on-Regression
CEEW – Sustainable Mobility Research Assistant
Just went through the HR induction. Also got an overview of some of the
## projects that CEEW is working on. Will talk about them in the following
weeks.
## Books
I haven’t been able to read anything this week. One of the sacrifices that I
am making for career growth. There’s just isn’t enough time or energy. Once I
settle into these jobs, I might be able to read.
## Fitness
Gym: Haven’t been to the gym in last 2 weeks. I feel horrible.
Biking: 23 miles on the bike this week. Thanks to commuting to ## work.
