+++
title = "Week 22, 2021"
date = "2021-05-31T00:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
tags = ["weekly-update"]
+++

# Week 22, 2021

June 13, 2021
Categories: Weekly Notes
Those who do not know how to fight worry
die young
Dale Carnegie
## Work
I was focused on two things at ## work this week. First, problem-solving –
triaging bugs, recreating them in demo environments, and passing onto
software developers to fix those bugs in production. Second, I am supporting
sales team of the company. We recently signed one of our biggest ## projects in
terms of number of battery systems installed. The plan is to now use this
approved project as a fulcrum to land more ## projects from utilities in the US
and beyond. It’s a new area for me. It’s interesting.
Machine Learning Bootcamp
Tesla Car Sales Prediction: The task was to use sales data for Quarter 1 and
2 from Tesla, and predict the sales of the given models for the next 2
quarters. We had data for 2019. We trained the model on Q1 and Q2 sales, and
tested the model on Q3 and Q4. This was a test to compare different
regression models. We tried Gradient Descent, Normal Equations, Generalized
Linear Models (non-linear regression), and Random Forest Regression. We
compared the results based on RMSE and R2 scores. Random Forest Regressor
with 100 estimators gave us the best results out of all.
Walmart Labs Funnel Analysis – The task was to classify purchasing customers
vs non-purchasing customers on their e-commerce store. Given were 15 features
which included number of sessions, number of carts, max price of cart, time
of day, day of week etc. After some pre-processing, like one-hot encoding all
the categorical features, we dropped features with high correlation. We tried
feature selection with p-value as well. We then used Random Forest to get
feature rails/importances for each feature. Afterwards we ran the processed
data through multiple classification algorithms – logistic regression, SVM,
Neural networks etc. The comparison of each of these models using the
confusion matrix was really cool. Using metrics like Accuracy, Precision,
Recall, F1-score gave us a complete picture of the performance of the models.
CEEW – Sustainable Mobility Research Assistant
This week at CEEW, we reached a milestone in trying to build a Rapid Bus
Shelter Assessment model. The code we have built so far – segments objects
from an image – people, bus, car, animals, motorcycles etc. This is actually
done by the pre-trained YOLO model. Much thanks to Tensorflow and whoever
trained the model. Our code now takes this segmented image and applied
certain “rules” to classify the image as Accessible/Inaccessible or
Safe/Unsafe. The results are pretty cool given that we have less than 2 weeks
to finish this.
Dashboard : The next task for this project is building a web app for this
service. I am using Dash/Plotly packages from Python to achieve this. Let’s
see how this implementation goes.
## Books
No reading at all this week 🙁
## Fitness 
Biking: Decent miles covered this week. I approached close to 30 miles.
Thanks to commuting.
Gym: I went to the gym only once this week. I feel horrible. Same as last
week.
