+++
title = "Week 13, 2021"
date = "2021-03-29T00:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
tags = ["weekly-update"]
+++

# Week 13, 2021

April 5, 2021
Categories: Weekly Notes
## Work
This week I learned that as a data analyst/scientist, it is better to be
doubtful and right than be confident and wrong. It saves a lot of time of
other teams/employees when you don’t submit confident and wrong assignments
forward. Performed some exploratory analysis along with asset monitoring and
providing research support for writing business proposals. A busy week at
## work.
## Books
Practical Programming for Strength Training | Mark Rippertoe and Andy Baker
This book got really interesting and useful this week. I am at about 130
pages out of 400. After introduction to the human anatomy, chemistry in the
muscles and hormonal changes that come with weight training, the authors
dived into types of exercises to train with. They also talk about number of
reps and sets and the time gap between them. Before reading this book, I was
heavily reliant on training individual muscle groups using sophisticated
equipments in the gym. Now I know that only a few exercises, like Bench
Press, Deadlift, Chin ups, Pull ups, Squats, Power Clean, are sufficient to
build proper functional strength. Only that I should increase the intensity
of those exercises as I go along my training. Looking forward to more
wonderful reading.
Deep Learning with PyTorch | Eli Stevens, Luca Antiga, and Thomas Viehman
This week I read about 20 pages of this book. I am at page 133. I am making
very slow progress with this book. The target I set for each week was 50
pages and ideally I should have been at page 200 by now. Despite the slow
progress, I learned wonderful things in the 20 pages that I read. My reading
was mostly about preparing tensors for different types of data, from Images,
time series data, to text representation. I need some hands-on practice to
cement all that knowledge.
## Fitness
Gym: Spent just over 3 and half hours in strength training at the gym. I
introduced bench press in my workout routine. It felt very effective.
Swim: The gym that I go to opened the swimming pool for everyone. Luckily,
there aren’t many people swimming at any time of the day. At least for now. I
went for a swim once. Given that it had been over two years since I last
stepped in a swimming pool, I was really bad at swimming. I couldn’t even
cross one 25-yard lap without taking a break. This week I swam once. I have a
steep learning curve ahead of me.
Bike: A terrible week for biking. I barely touched 10 miles. And all the
biking I did in this week was to and from the gym. With this abysmal
performance, I have broken a wonderful biking streak. I better make the next
week record breaking to make a great comeback.
