+++
title = "Week 12, 2021"
date = "2021-03-22T00:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
tags = ["weekly-update"]
+++

# Week 12, 2021

March 29, 2021
Categories: Weekly Notes
This was a tough week. I felt a general lack of motivation in all aspects of
life. There was enormous mental friction in doing even the simplest of tasks
like laundry. I am not sure why. But just the realization that there is a
mental blockage reduced its potential and I was able to control some of it.
## Work
The week was all about troubleshooting with remote diagnostics, asset
monitoring and product documentation. Also spent time on delivering
performance and testing reports to customers. A week of less programming and
statistical analysis and more client-facing ## work.
I am a huge electric vehicle nerd and thus my YouTube feed is full of EV
news. Some EV range testers ran the Tesla Model 3, Mustang Mach-e, and the VW
ID.4 beyond their 0% State of Charge. They found that the Tesla drove 22
miles after reaching 0% whereas the Mach-e only did 6 miles. I just thought
that was super interesting. Battery pack manufacturers usually leave some
room at the bottom SOC to protect the batteries. SOC estimation is an
interesting problem. Some battery manufacturers map it to the cell voltage
(since there is a linear relationship between the battery voltage and its
SOC). I wonder what Tesla does.
Side Project
Virtually met with one of the professors to resolve a problem with my Google
Earth Engine code. Right now I am tasked at creating a pipeline to provide
the right type of data to the neural network that is also currently in the
works by another project mate. We got 180 fires and after a lot of pre-
processing we are very close to exporting rastors (images) of the fires from
Google Earth Engine.
## Books
A weird week with reading. I was jumping between reading about Weight
Lifting, Deep Learning, and Philosophy.
Practical Programming for Strength Training | Mark Rippertoe and Andy Baker
I read only around 30 kindle pages of this book. One important concept that I
grabbed is the distinction between a novice, intermediate, and advanced
trainees and how their bodies respond to weight training. The book talks in
depth about the Stress > Recovery > Adaptation cycle of each of these stages
in a trainee’s life. It gets a little boring most times.
Deep Learning with PyTorch | Eli Stevens, Luca Antiga, and Thomas Viehman
So far I am on page 113 of this 500 page PDF book. So far the book talked
about Tensor object which is the fundamental tool in the PyTorch library. The
book explains how the library uses storage on the CPU or GPU. It introduces
the concepts of size, offsets, and stride. Also learned about PyTorch’s
interoperability with NumPy. This week’s target was to get to 150. A lot of
pages short.
Meditations | Marcus Aurelius
Just stared with this book. Barely 20 pages in. Nothing to share about it
yet.
## Fitness
Gym: 4 days in the gym and spent just over 3 hours in strength training.
Mostly leg workouts. I have been measuring my heart rate and I am steadily
working on keeping the average heart rate during training as high as
possible. Also, my gym is opening the swimming pool next week. Looking
forward to some great cardio. I am hoping to spend more than 5 hours with
strength training next week. Let’s see how it goes.
Bike: I biked around 27 miles this week. A little short of last week’s total
miles. Hoping to maintain this mileage next week as well.
