+++
title = "Week 29, 2021"
date = "2021-07-19T00:00:00-00:00"
draft = false
tags = ["weekly-update"]
+++

# Week 29, 2021

July 26, 2021
Categories: Weekly Notes
“But man is not made for defeat,” he said. “A man can be destroyed but
not defeated.” 
– Ernest Hemingway
The last three to four weeks have been defeating. Sorry to start this blog on
a sad note but it’s true. I have bitten off more that I can chew but I have
to finish all the things that I have started.
## Work
Sunverge opened its office a while ago. I have to go into the office everyday
and I choose to bike to ## work. The commute is 15 miles round trip. It a lot of
fun to bike to ## work but I am too tired at the end of the day for any
productive hours. A lot of interesting things happening at ## work most of which
I obviously can’t share here. One thing I can talk about is that we hired
another employee to help with business side of things. Last week I was tasked
with helping him through everything. It was a new experience for me.
Machine Learning Bootcamp
There’s a blast of information coming at me faster than I can absorb it all.
It is overwhelming and unsatisfying. Don’t get me wrong, I am thrilled to be
learning all ML/AI stuff and getting hands on experience with it but I just
wish I had more time to sit with it and enjoy. I am playing catchup with all
the modules and assignments. I submitted the mid-term exam today and I feel
like I couldn’t have done worse on the test.
One good news is that we have started out Capstone project on a good note.
It’s a partner project meaning that I have teamed up with a guy from Rome,
Italy to ## work on the project. We have picked an industry-sponsored project of
Financial Fraud detection from Ibotta. For ethical reasons, we are using
another old anonymized dataset to build and deploy our model. The partner
project is a good practice in collaboration and communication.
CEEW – Sustainable Mobility Research Assistant
Till yesterday, I thought I made good progress and came very close to
finishing the CEEW project but the web app completely broke as I was
deploying it in production. This is how the dashboard is supposed to look
like. It works fine on my local system but I came across a host of problems
while deploying it on Heroku. I spent 7-hours on Saturday trying to debug
this issue after a 6-hour long live bootcamp session. But I failed.
## Books
Genentech: The Beginnings of Biotech |  Sally Smith Hughes
I barely read 10-30 pages of this book in the last 3-4 weeks.
## Fitness
I haven’t been focusing much on ## fitness and that includes nutrition. All the
things I am involved in leave me tired and after that I don’t want to go to
the gym and struggle or restrict unhealthy eating habits. It’s obviously
affecting my health. I have been convincing myself that age is on my side and
these bad eating habits (or lack of weight lifting) will not punish me in the
short run. I know I am wrong in assuming so. I hope that I am able to focus
more on ## fitness next week.
